








Integration DevOps Guidelines And User Manual











Current 
Version:
1.1
Updated parallel development





Copyright (c) 2009 by Silksuits IT. All rights reserved. No part of this document may be presented,
reproduced or copied in any form or by any means (graphical, electronic or mechanical including
photocopying, recording tape or by any information storage and retrieval system) without the 
express written permission of Silksuits Ltd. 

CHANGE HISTORY 
VERSION
CHANGE
AUTHOR
DATE

















APPROVALS 

NAME
POSITION
SIGNATURE
DATE
















DISTRIBUTION
Group or Individual NAME
ICC Architects Team









 



	
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1	Introduction	5
1.1	Project Background	5
1.2	Project Objective	5
1.3	Document Purpose	5
1.4	References	5
2	Project Scope	6
2.1	Inclusions	6
2.2	Assumptions and Dependencies	7
2.3	Issues	8
2.4	Risks	8
2.5	Purpose of this document	9
2.6	Business Context	9
2.7	Definitions, Acronyms & Abbreviations	9
3	environment and server	11
3.1	Server details	11
4	Roles and responsibilities	11
5	CICD Delivery Process	12
6	Toolset	15
6.1	Software AG Product Suite (Designer, IS, Broker and UM)	15
6.2	GITLab as Source Repository	15
6.3	GitLab for Continuous Integration	15
6.4	Software AG Asset Build Environment	15
6.5	Software AG wM Deployer	16
6.6	Software AG wMTestSuite	16
7	CICD Flow Diagram	17
8	Infrastructure Setup	19
8.1	Virtual Machine Configurations	19
8.2	Softwares to be installed in LINUX VM	19
8.3	Software Configuration requirement per VM	19
8.4	Infrastructure Setup Approaches	20
9	CICD Setup	21
9.1	Local Development Environment Setup	21
9.2	Build Environment Setup	22
9.3	Reference Server	24
9.4	Version Control Setup	24
10	Parallel Development	28
11	GIT Installation	35
12	GIT Check-out & Check-in	37
12.1	Check-out changes from remote repository	37
12.2	Check-in changes to remote repository	41
13	Install IS, Designer and WmTestSuite	44
14	Create & Execute Test Suite	49
14.1	Test Suite and Test Case Naming Convention	62
15	Jenkins Installation & Configuration	63
16	Future roadmap	76
17	Appendix	77
17.1	Infrastructure Setup Approaches	77






























1	INTRODUCTION
1.1	Project Background
webMethods Integration development team is undergoing a transformation phase with an aim to 
enhance and improve the efficiency of integration development activity.
In current development model, the development practice is carried out loosely in a sequential manner. 
Development systems are centralised and used by all integration development users and projects.
Development, changes and testing are not so easily done due a single environment for development. 
Going forward, we are aiming to introduce Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery model. In 
this new model it will strength code integrity and quality, and most importantly improve development 
process efficiency.

1.2	Project Objective
Silksuits is currently running on Software AG's webMethods product suite for integrating enterprise 
applications, stores systems and B2B partners. This landscape has grown over a period of time which 
makes it challenging to manage the delivery of webMethods integration projects. So, we are looking 
for an effective delivery process to reduce interface on-board time and improve quality of deliverables. 
Continuous Integration is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a 
shared repository several times a day. Each check-in is then verified by an automated build and test, 
allowing teams to detect problems early.
Continuous Delivery is a DevOps software development practice where code changes are 
automatically built, tested, and prepared for a release to development with greater efficiency and 
frequency.

1.3	Document Purpose
The purpose of this document is to capture the CI-CD guidelines and user manual which details the 
CI-CD process, tooling requirements and operational steps

1.4	References
1.4.1	Documents
ID.
Document
Author
Date









1.4.2	Business SME
Name
Position
Department
Subject Matter Area / Topic









1.4.3	Technical SME
Name
Position
Department
Subject Matter Area / Topic













2	PROJECT SCOPE
The scope of this project is to:
1.	Define and document the CI-CD process
2.	Document the toolset to be used as a part of CI-CD process
3.	Document the steps to be followed to implement CI-CD process
4.	Define and Document the source code structure for various integration products (like IS, BPM, 
TN etc.) in version control system
5.	Document how to install and configure local development environment
6.	Document how to install and configure CI tool (Jenkins)
7.	Document how to configure build server
8.	Document how to configure Reference IS 

2.1	Inclusions
ID.
Description
1
All necessary processes to be adopted as part of Integration DevOps model
2
All necessary tools to be used as part of Integration DevOps model.
3
Installation and configuration of tools to be used as a part of CICD process
4
All necessary steps to install and configure WmTestSuite
5
This document describes how to set up and configure GitHub, Jenkins and other operational
procedures

2.2	Assumptions and Dependencies
ID.
Description
Owner(s)
Status
1
We started our CICD journey with GitHub (as source 
control) and Jenkins (as CI tool). But it has been 
decided to use GitLab as the one stop shop for both 
source control and CI tool.
Andrew So
Confirmed
2
JFrog Artifactory which is in the CICD road map as a 
binary repository will not be onboard / available within 
coming financial year (2020)
Andrew
Confirmed
3
Current document talks mainly about the CICD 
implementation till Development environment. At the 
same time it also provides a roadmap to be followed 
while implementing CICD model till production (Section: 
Future Roadmap).  


4
The current CICD process brings local development, 
version control and regression unit testing till 
Development environment. Migration from Dev to PROD 
will follow the usual BAU process using Harvest. With 
this hybrid model, all SDLC issues won't get addressed / 
resolved, but it will build a base for future CICD  
implementation


5
If Release Manager wants to demerge / remove any 
changes, developer needs to do the due diligence (diff 
between two commits) i.e. the commit which was taken 
from master to implement the change and the commit 
which implemented with the changes in the master 
branch. This has to be done using Software AG 
Designer.


6
Regression unit testing will done for the version which 
was taken from master branch plus the unit test cases 
added for the change done by the developer


7
For the codes which running on windows, will be tested 
on Reference IS, hosted on Linux. Discussed  approach 
is to identify the operating system and to identify the 
corresponding properties files. For e.g in 
getConfiguration service, the OS will be identified and 
properties file will be choose based on that. i.e. 
XXX_L.properties for linux and XXX_W.properties for 
Windows.


8
In case there is an issue with CICD server and there is a 
hot fix to release, then that can be done directly in 
Development server and can be moved further. Once 
the server is up and running, then the hot fix needs to be 
merged and synced.  



2.3	Issues
ID.
Description
Owner(s)
Status
1
Local Work Station will be connecting internet via proxy 
server
IT Security
To be validated









2.4	Risks
ID.
Description
Owner(s)
Status













2.5	Purpose of this document
The purpose of this document is to define the CI-CD delivery process and technical instructions to be 
followed by integration webMethods Development team.

2.6	Business Context
Objective
Outcome
To have a CI-CD integration and 
deployment approach
?	Incremental code release to improve delivery efficiency and identify 
issues early
?	Maintain a code repository
?	Optimize the process of Package Build, automated unit testing and 
deployment to the Development environment
?	Make test results available to relevant stakeholders

2.7	Definitions, Acronyms & Abbreviations
Term
Definition
ABE
webmethods Asset Build Environment
ACL
Access Control List
CICD
Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery
HSLD
High Level Solution Design
ICC
Integration Competency Centre
IS
Integration Server
LLD
Low Level Design
MWS
My webMethods Server
RPM
Red Hat Package Manager
SIT
System Integration Testing
TN
Trading Networks
UAT
User Accepted Testing
UM
Universal Messaging
VCS
Version Control Systems - This is a generic term to define used for 
source control.

























3	ENVIRONMENT AND SERVER
3.1	Server details
      All CICD related components will be installed in the following temporary virtual machines:
Host Name
IP Address
CPU
Memory
Storage

















4	ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
    Here are the roles and responsibilities corresponding to the CICD delivery approach:

Sl. No.
Role
Responsibility
1
Integration Architect
Understands the HLSD and creates low level design 
(LLD) document
2
Integration Developer
Understands the LLD, develops and delivers the code 
and unit test cases
3
QA
Understands business functionality, creates and perform 
end-to-end functional test cases









5	CICD DELIVERY PROCESS
    Here is the CICD delivery process:

 
Pre DevOps activities:
-	Solution Architect will understand the business / solution / functional requirement and will 
create high level solution design (HLSD) document
-	Integration Architect / Designer will understand the HLSD and create integration design 
document which covers both Integration HLSD and LLD
-	Integration Developer will have a detailed walkthrough with the Integration Architect / Designer 
to understand the design


 
Section A:
1.	Integration Developer to clone the master branch and create a new develop branch for the 
current change
2.	Integration Developer will start development activities on develop branch at local workstation
Section B:
3.	Once development for that particular interface is complete, create unit test suite using 
Software AG wMTestSuite
Section C:
4.	 Execute test suite
Section D:
5.	If test results are successful, then push the changes to version control system (VCS)
Section E:
6.	Schedule / Execute the Jenkins job to deploy from VCS to Reference IS:
a.	At the build server (wM ABE), pull the source code from source repository and stores 
in file system
b.	Create a build using wM ABE
c.	Deploy the build to Reference Server using wMDeployer
d.	Execute test cases in Reference Server and validate test results
e.	If test result is false, then go back to section A.2 and follow the same process
Section F:
7.	If test result is success, Integration Developer will create a pull request in VCS for merging 
develop branch into master. Release manager will follow this up when receive this pull request
Section G:
8.	Release manager sees the merge request and reviews the changes along with other pull 
request for the same repository. And based on the release priority and planning, release 
manager will either include or exclude the particular pull request. When satisfied with all 
conditions, the Release manager will marks the build in Binary repository for DEV deployment. 
If a particular pull request doesn't meet the release planning criteria, then the pull request will 
be parked for the next release cycle
Section H:
9.	Release Manager executes the Jenkins job to deploy from Binary repository (GitLab Binary 
repository) (which is the output from wM ABE which is created by the developer) to 
Development Environment.
Section I:
10.	Release manager will approve the pull request to merge develop branch into master

Post DevOps activities:
-	Developer team will use Harvest application to deploy the build in SIT/Test environment
-	QA team will run test cases in SIT/Test environment
-	In case of any bug / CR the same will move back to development or else will move to UAT 
environment using Harvest
-	Business test cases will be executed in UAT environment
-	In case of any issue the same will move back to development or else will move to Production 
environment using Harvest



















6	TOOLSET
Following tools will be used for Silksuits CICD implementation:
Sl. No.
Task
Tool
1
Build
Software AG Asset Build Environment (ABE)
2
Build Binary Repository
VM File System 
(JFrog Artifactory to be adopted in future)
3
Continuous Integration
GitLab
(Jenkins - Old design approach)
4
Deployment
Software AG wMDeployer
5
Development
Software AG Product Suite(Designer, 
Integration Server, Broker and UM)
6
Source Control Repository
GitLab
(GitHub - Old design approach)
7
Unit Test and Regression
Software AG WmTestSuite

6.1	Software AG Product Suite (Designer, IS, Broker and UM)
Developers need to install the following Software AG products to do the local development:
-	Software AG Designer - This is an IDE to do local development
-	webMethods Integration Server - This provides a locally running environment / platform for 
developing and testing webMethods source code
-	webMethods Broker - This provides a messaging platform
-	Software AG Universal Messaging - This provides a messaging platform
6.2	GITLab as Source Repository
GitLab is used as a source repository, which stores webMethods source code as well as the history of 
changes made to these source codes.
6.3	GitLab for Continuous Integration
GitLab is used as continuous integration tool which will orchestrate the process of checking out the 
source code from source repository, create build, put the build in build binary repository, deploy in 
reference IS and run test cases.
6.4	Software AG Asset Build Environment
Software AG Asset Build Environment (ABE) is used to create the build which gets deployed in 
reference IS and Development server.
6.5	Software AG wM Deployer
Software AG wM Deployer is used to deploy the  build to Reference IS and Development server.
6.6	Software AG wMTestSuite
Software AG wM Test Suite is used to create and execute unit test cases.
The below diagram shows how Silksuits CICD operating model is mapped to the selected toolsets:
 

 






7	CICD FLOW DIAGRAM
 

Here are the steps to be followed for CICD approach (without JFrog Artifactory):			 
1.	Integration Developer will do development and unit testing at local workstation. Once the test 
results are successful, then push the changes to version control system (VCS)
2.	As soon as something new being committed to VCS, CI server will get notified using web hook
3.	GitLab runner, which constantly polls GitLab CI server, will be notified to start the CI job
4.	The job will pull the repository from VCS
5.	The job will invoke WmABE to create build
6.	WmABE will run, create build and store it in Build repository
7.	The job will:
a.	Invoke WmDeployer
b.	WmDeployer will pull the build from build repository
8.	WmDeployer will deploy to Reference IS
9.	Once the deployment is successful in Reference IS. The job will execute all the test cases
10.	Once the test cases are successful, the GitLab Runner will use another job for WmDeployer to 
deploy the build in Development Server
11.	Release manager will approve the pull request to merge develop branch into master




 
Here are the steps to be followed for CICD End state:		 
1.	Integration Developer will do development and unit testing at local workstation. Once the test 
results are successful, then push the changes to version control system (VCS)
2.	As soon as something new being committed to VCS, CI server will get notified using web hook
3.	GitLab runner, which constantly polls GitLab CI server, will be notified to start the CI job
4.	The job will pull the repository from VCS
5.	The job will invoke WmABE to create build
6.	WmABE will run, create build and store it in file system
7.	The job will:
a.	Invoke WmDeployer
b.	WmDeployer will pull the build from build repository
8.	WmDeployer will deploy to Reference IS
9.	Once the deployment is successful in Reference IS. The job will execute all the test cases
10.	After successfully running the test cases, the job will push the build to JFrog Artifactory
11.	Another job will pull the build from JFrog Artifactory 
12.	After pulling the build a deployer project will be created and use WmDeployer to deploy the 
build in Development Server
13.	Release manager will approve the pull request to merge develop branch into master



8	INFRASTRUCTURE SETUP
Here is the infrastructure requirement for Integration CICD
8.1	Virtual Machine Configurations
VM Type
CPU
Memory
Storage
Count
LINUX VM
16
32 GB
100 GB
6

8.2	Softwares to be installed in LINUX VM
 

8.3	Software Configuration requirement per VM
Configuration requirements for each installed software
Sl. No.
Software 
Component
No. of components 
installed
RAM / Software 
component
Total RAM / 
Software 
component
Total 
RAM
1
Build IS
1
4 GB
4 GB

2
Reference IS 
10
2 GB
20 GB

3
GitLab 
Runner
1
2 GB
2 GB

4
Guest OS
1
2 GB
2 GB

5
Buffer

4 GB
4 GB






32 GB

8.4	Infrastructure Setup Approaches
8.4.1	Active - Standby Approach
In this approach there will be all total of six Linux VMs. As shown in the diagram below, from 
installation perspective Linux VM1 and Linux VM2 are the replica of each other.  Linux VM1 will have 
five active ISs and five passive ISs on the other hand Linux VM2 will have five passive ISs 
(corresponding to the active ISs in Linux VM1) and five active ISs (corresponding to the passive ISs in 
Linux VM1). In case of any outage in Linux VM1, all the passive ISs in Linux VM2 will be activated 
manually.
Note: For this setup, VM replication isn't required as we don't want to retain the state of the server. 
The transactions are stateless.
 

 
9	CICD SETUP
 
9.1	Local Development Environment Setup
This section describes the products that need to be installed:
-	Software AG Product suite
o	Software AG Designer
o	Software AG Integration Server
o	Broker / UM (as per the project requirement)
o	Software AG WmTestSuite
      Note: 
-	Refer Software AG installation guide (not included in this document) to install components in 
local machine
-	Refer "Parallel Development" section to understand how parallel development is done and 
how to merge with master branch
-	Refer "Git Check-out & Check-in" section to check-out and check-in using Software AG 
Designer
-	Refer "Create & Execute Test Suite" section to create and execute test suite using Software 
AG WmTestSuite

9.2	Build Environment Setup
This section describes the components that need to be installed and configured for the build 
environment setup: 
-	Software AG Integration Server
o	Software AG WmDeployer
o	Software AG Asset Build Environment
-	CI server (Jenkins / GitLab)
-	Git Client

In Jenkins, each domain will perform two actions:
1.	Action 1: This will checkout source code from develop branch, create build and deploy in 
Reference IS. The name of the job is "developBranchToReferenceIS"
2.	Action 2: This will get the required build from build repository (JFrog Artifactory) and  deploy in 
Development IS. The name of the job is "buildToDevelopmentServer"

    Naming conventions:
    Job name that will be executed by Integration Developer
    <Branch Name>To<Target Server>
    For e.g. developBranchToReferenceIS
    
    Job name that will be executed by Release Manager
    buildTo<Target Server>
    For e.g. buildToDevelopmentServer

1.	Steps performed by "developBranchToReferenceIS" Jenkins job are mentioned below.
-	Checkout source code from Git
stage ('Checkout SourceCode') {
	steps {
gitCheckout("./${IS_REPO_HOME}","${IS_BRANCH}","${GIT_CREDENTIALS_ID}", 
"${GIT_URL}")
	}
}
-	Create the Build in Build server using Software AG Asset Build Environment
stage ('Create Build') {				
	steps {
		print " ----- Create Build ----- "
createBuild("${SAG_HOME}","${ABE_HOME}","${BUILD_VERSION}","${JEN
KINS_WS}")
					
		print " ----- Create Test Build ----- "
createTestBuild("${SAG_HOME}","${ABE_HOME}", "${BUILD_VERSION}", 
"${JENKINS_WS}")
		}
}
-	Store the Build in Build Repository.
-	Deploy the Build in the Reference IS using Software AG Deployer
stage ('Deploy Build on Reference IS') {	
	steps {
		print " ----- Deploy Build ----- "
		deployBuild("${SAG_HOME}/${DEPLOYER_HOME}",  
"${PROJECT_NAME_IS}", "${DEP_CAN_IS}", "${DEPLOYER_HOST}", 
"${DEPLOYER_PORT}", "${DEPLOYER_USER}", "${DEPLOYER_PWD}")
	}
}
-	Run WmTestSuite in Reference IS
stage ('Run Unit Tests in Refernce IS') {
      steps {
		print " ----- Run Unit Tests -----"
		runUnitTests("${SAG_HOME}", "${ABE_HOME}", "${JENKINS_WS}", 
"${DIRECTORY_TEST_REPORTS}")*/
	}
}

Find below the screenshot of the Jenkins job:
 

    2.   Steps performed by "buildToDevelopmentServer" job are mentioned below.
-	Deploy the Build in Development Server using Software AG WmDeployer
stage ('Deploy Build on Development Server') {				
	steps {
		print " ----- Deploy Build ----- "
deployBuild("${SAG_HOME}/${DEPLOYER_HOME}", 
"${PROJECT_NAME_IS}", "${DEP_CAN_IS}", "${DEPLOYER_HOST}", 
"${DEPLOYER_PORT}", "${DEPLOYER_USER}", "${DEPLOYER_PWD}")
				
	}
}

    Find below the screen shot of the Jenkins job:
 

Note: 
-	Refer "Jenkins Installation & Configuration" section to install and configure Jenkins 
-	Refer "Git Installation" section to install Git
9.3	Reference Server
The below product and component need to be installed  and configured for the Reference IS 
server setup:
-	Software AG Integration Server
-	Software AG wmTestSuite

9.4	Version Control Setup
The table below shows the current integration domains and the respective version control 
repositories:
Integration Domain Name
Sub Group Name
GitLab Repository Name
HR/HCM

HCM_WMRepo
Stores
Stores Mediator
STR_MED_WMRepo

Stores ESB
STR_ESB_WMRepo

Stores TLOG L1 ESB
STR_TLOG_L1_ESB_WMRepo

Stores TLOG L2 ESB
STR_TLOG_L2_ESB_WMRepo

Stores TLOG L2 HANA
STR_TLOG_L2_HANA_WMRepo

Stores TLOG L2 XBR
STR_TLOG_L2_XBR_WMRepo

Stores TLOG L2 CLCS
STR_TLOG_L2_CLCS_WMRepo

Stores TLOG L2 NON PI
STR_TLOG_L2_NONPI_WMRepo

Stores TLOG L2 PI
STR_TLOG_L2_PI_WMRepo
B2B
B2B TN
B2B_TN_WMRepo

B2B Email
B2B_Email_WMRepo

B2B Console
B2B_Console_WMRepo
B2C
B2C Process execution
B2C_PEC_WMRepo

B2C Real time process
B2C_RTC_WMRepo

B2C Adapter process
B2C_ADP_WMRepo
PCI/GFS

PCI_WMRepo
Logistic/PVC
LGST Windows
LGST_WIN_WMRepo

LGST Linux
LGST_LNX_WMRepo
PEL
PEL ESB
PEL_ESB_WMRepo
CORE
Core Linux
CORE_LNX_WMRepo

Core Windows
CORE_WIN_WMRepo

Core PLMS
CORE_PLMS_WMRepo

This is how repositories will be shown in version control system:

 

 

Follow the below structure approach for all repositories.
Path
Description
/BPM
BPM Process Models
/Broker
Broker artefacts (like connection factory, 
document type, topic and queue)
/IS
Integration Server resources
/IS/packages
Integration Server packages
/IS/tests
Integration Server unit test projects (using 
WmTestSuite)
/MWS
My webMethods artefacts (ACLs, users, roles, 
group)
/TN
Trading Network artefacts (partner profile, 
document type, processing rule)
/UM
Universal Messaging artefacts (connection factory, 
queue, topic)

This is how it shows in version control system:
 

Inside IS, it will have Packages and Tests
 

10	PARALLEL DEVELOPMENT
This section explains the advantages of parallel development and the process involved while doing 
parallel development.

Here is the current development approach where all the developers do their development in a 
common development server.
 
There are certain disadvantages when it comes to development in a common server.
-	Common Server approach doesn't allow parallel development on the same interface
-	Hard to coordinate between developers
To deal with these hurdles, we came up with Local Service Development, where all developers will 
install Software AG suite in their respective machine and will go ahead with their changes.
 
Here are the advantages of local service development:
-	Provides the developers with a local copy so that they do not impact other developers
-	Support and leverage VCS plug-ins used directly in Eclipse to checkout and checkin source 
code
-	Developer does not need to be on the network for development
-	Developers can work on multiple versions of the same assets using different VCS branches

Here are few scenario of parallel development:
Scenario 1: Two different projects having similar timelines need to change the same package. This 
also describes the deployment process of how both the projects can start development in parallel.
1.	The current released version of the package is the 'master' branch
2.	For two requirements, developers need to work on  the same package
3.	Integration Developer1 creates a branch to work on: branch1
4.	Integration Developer1 makes changes and commits to branch1
5.	Integration Developer2 starts a project, so creates branch2 from master
6.	Integration Developer2 does not get Integration Developer1's changes as they are on branch1
7.	Integration Developer2 makes his changes and commits to branch2


 

8.	Integration Developer 1 wants to release the change.
9.	Integration Developer 1 creates a pull request to merge branch1 into master
10.	Release manager gets  the merge request and reviews the changes
11.	Release manager once  satisfied with the changes, accepts the changes
12.	Release manager merges branch1 into master (which has no additional changes)
13.	Master branch is now the same as branch1

 



14.	Integration Developer 2 on checking git commit , founds that the master branch has been 
updated since he branched.
15.	Integration Developer 2 compares and merges the changes from master into branch2
16.	Integration Developer 2 fixes and tests  his merged changes and commits to branch2
17.	Integration Developer 2 creates a merge request to merge branch2 to master

 

18.	Release manager gets  the merge request and reviews the changes
19.	Release manager once  satisfied with the changes, accepts the changes
20.	Release manager merges branch2 into master (which has no additional changes)
21.	master is now the same as branch2

 

Scenario 2: How to do parallel development when there are three different projects on three different 
packages within same repo
Assumptions: 
1.	The current released version of the package is the 'master' branch (M0)
2.	For three requirements, developers need to work on three different packages within same 
repository
3.	Integration Developer1 creates a branch to work on: branch 1
4.	Integration Developer1 makes changes and commits to branch 1
5.	Integration Developer2 starts a project, so creates branch 2 from master
6.	Integration Developer2 makes his changes and commits to branch 2
7.	Integration Developer3 starts a project, so creates branch 3 from master
8.	Integration Developer3 makes his changes and commits to branch 3

 

9.	Integration Developer 3 wants to release the change
10.	Integration Developer 3 creates a pull request to merge branch 3 into master (M1)
11.	At this point environments look like:

Dev
SIT
UAT
PROD
M1
M1
M1
M0




12.	A new change in master notifies all stakeholders
13.	Integration Developer 1 is ready with his changes and wants to release the change
14.	But he has realised that there is a change in master branch, so he has to merge the changes 
and then have to push the changes to master branch
15.	So Integration Developer 1 pulls the M1 changes from master branch, merge the code and 
commits to branch 1
16.	Now Integration Developer 1 wants to release the change
17.	Integration Developer 1 creates a pull request to merge branch 1 into master (M2)
18.	At this point environments look like:

Dev
SIT
UAT
PROD
M1
M1
M1
M0
M2
M2
M2
M0


19.	Similarly Integration Developer 3 commits his changes to branch 3 and merges branch 3 to 
master (M3)
20.	At this point environments look like:

Dev
SIT
UAT
PROD
M1
M1
M1
M0
M2
M2
M2
M0
M3
M3
M3
M0

21.	At this stage all projects are running parallel
22.	In case one project gets cancelled (let's say Change 1 got cancelled)
23.	Then the Delivery Lead will intimate Integration Developer 1, Release Manager and other 
stake holders
24.	Integration Developer 1 will do the due diligence and identify that change that has been put as 
a part of M2 change.
25.	Integration Developer 1 will pull the latest commit from master (which is M3 in this case) 
removes the change 1, commits his changes to branch 1 and merges branch 1 to master (M4)
26.	At this point change 1 will be rolled back from UAT and SIT environments
27.	At this point environments look like:

Dev
SIT
UAT
PROD
M1
M1
M1
M0
M3
M3
M3
M0
M4
M4
M4
M0

Scenario 3: How to do parallel development when there are three different changes on same 
interface within same repository
1.	The current released version of the package is the 'master' branch (M0)
2.	For three requirements, developers need to work on three different changes on same interface 
within the same repository
3.	Integration Developer 1 creates a branch to work on: branch 1
4.	Integration Developer 1 makes changes and commits to branch 1
5.	Integration Developer 2 starts a project, so creates branch 2 from master
6.	Integration Developer 2 makes his changes and commits to branch 2
7.	Integration Developer 2 wants to release the change
8.	Integration Developer 2 creates a pull request to merge branch 2 into master (M1)
9.	A new change in master notifies all stakeholders
10.	Integration Developer 1 is ready with his changes and wants to release the change
11.	But he has realised that there is a change in master branch, so he has to merge the changes 
and to push the changes to master branch
12.	At this point environments look like:

Dev
SIT
UAT
PROD
M1
M1
M1
M0

13.	At this point, Integration Developer 3 starts a project, so creates branch 3 from master (M1)
14.	Integration Developer 3 makes his changes and commits to branch 3
15.	Integration Developer 1 and 3 will raise pull request to merge the changes to master branch
16.	But Release manager will put both the changes (change 1 and 3) on hold until M1 goes to 
production or gets cancelled

 

17.	Once M1 goes to production, then Release Manager will prioritise and then release one of the 
hold changes
18.	At this point environments look like:

Dev
SIT
UAT
PROD
M2
M2
M2
M1

 

19.	Integration Developer 1 is ready with his changes and wants to release the change
20.	Integration Developer 3 starts a project, so creates branch 3 from master
21.	Integration Developer 3 makes his changes and commits to branch 3


















11	GIT INSTALLATION
This section describes how to install Git in Build Server

-	Run the following command to search Git
       sudo yum search git
 
-	Run the following command to install Git
    sudo yum install git
     
-	Verify Git, to check that Git installed correctly
$ git
    
     
















12	GIT CHECK-OUT & CHECK-IN
This section describes how to check-out and check-in assets from git using Software AG Designer.
12.1	Check-out changes from remote repository
-	To import a repository from remote git repository, go to the repository
 

-	Click on the "HCM_WMrepo" and then click on "Clone or download" tab
 

 
-	Copy the URL
-	Open Software AG Designer and go to Git perspective
-	Click "Clone a git repository"
 
-	Enter the URI, username and password
 
-	Click Next and select the master branch.
-	Enter the Directory, where the git repository will get copied
 
-	Click Finish
-	The git repository will get copied
 

12.2	Check-in changes to remote repository
-	After saving the changes, the file will be visible in "Unstaged Changes"
 
-	Move the file from "Unstaged Changes" to "Staged Changes" by dragging the file or by 
clicking "Add to Index"
 
-	Give a proper commit Message and click "Commit" button.
-	The change will be committed.
-	Select the branch in which changes are  being made and click "Push Branch"
 
-	Click Next
-	Enter git repository username and password
 
-	Click OK
-	The change will be reflected in remote repository


























13	INSTALL IS, DESIGNER AND WMTESTSUITE
This section describes the installation steps to be followed to install Integration Server, Designer and 
WmTestSuite

-	WebMethods Devops Edition image file is located in the path below:
S:\ICC\Software\webMethods\Image\10.3\DevOps
-	Below are the installation steps (which are quite same as any normal webmethods 
installation)
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
  






14	CREATE & EXECUTE TEST SUITE
This section describes how to use Software AG WmTestSuite to create test suite and test cases:
-	Open Software AG Designer in "Service Development" perspective
-	Create a package with "_TestSuite" appended to it. For e.g. if the package for which test suite 
has to be created is HCM_TIM, the test suite package name is HCM_TIM_TestSuite
 
-	Go to file system where packages are present
 
-	Right click and invoke "Git Bash Here"
-	Create a empty git file by clicking the below icon:
 
 
-	Click Finish
-	.git repository gets created
 
-	Create a .gitignore file using below command
touch .gitignore
 
-	Update .gitignore file
 
-	Execute below command to check the changed packages
 
-	Go back to Software AG Designer, go to Service Development perspective. Right click the 
test suite package and click "Create Local Service Development Project"
 

 
-	Click Finish
-	Go to Java perspective and expand the HCM_TIM_TestSuite folder
-	Create the following folder structure under "resources"
 
-	"setup" will contain test suite and "data" will contain input and expected output data
-	In "setup" create test suite by right clicking > New > Other
 
-	Type "test" and select "Test Suite"
 
-	Click Next
-	Enter suite name and click Finish
 
 
-	Click Ok
-	WmTestSuite layout will be visible
 
-	Create a test suite by clicking Add
 

-	Enter "Test Details"
 

-	Click "untitled"
-	Service Details, Inputs and Expected Output layout is visible
 

-	In "Service" enter the service name that needs to be tested. In "Input", enter the input file. In 
"Expected Output" enter the expected output file.
 
-	Input and Expected Output files are stored in path shown below
 

-	To run the test suite, right click and click "Run Test" or "Run Suite"
 

-	Check the test result
 

-	Use mock when backend service aren't available
 

-	In detail layout, enter Mock Details and IData Details
-	In, Mock Details, mention the service name to be mocked and in IData Details mention the 
output value from mock service
 

-	Rerun the test suite
 

 

-	To run test suite / test cases without mocking Run Suite / Tests with Mocks disabled
 

14.1	Test Suite and Test Case Naming Convention
Naming conventions:
1. Test Suite Package
Create a package with "_TestSuite" appended to it. For e.g. if the package for which test suite has to 
be created is HCM_TIM, the test suite package name is HCM_TIM_TestSuite
 
<Package Name>_TestSuite
2. Test Suite
<Interface Name>_TestSuite.xml
E.g. For below interface
Interface Name
Service List
Staff Discount Data
SDC.interfaces.pub:publishStaffDiscountCards
EJA.interfaces.sdc:processStaffDiscountCard
Payload.resources.jdbc:insertRow
EJA.interfaces.lossPrevention:sendStaffDiscount2LP
EJA.interfaces.sdc.helpers:checkMandatory
EJA.interfaces.lossPrevention.helpers:convertDivisionToSalesOrg

Test suite name will be "Staff Discount Data_TestSuite.xml"
3. Test case
<Service Name>_<Test Type>
For e.g. publishStaffDiscountCards_positiveTestCase



















15	JENKINS INSTALLATION & CONFIGURATION
This section describes how to install and configure Jenkins:

-	Download jenkins rpm from https://Jenkins.io
 
-	Click "Download" button
-	It will take you to the download section
Note: Download from Long-term Support section
-	Click the appropriate operating system and download the latest rpm
 
-	Download the latest package to your local drive
-	Login to the build server (in this case ncdl1wmisa0006) using WinScp and copy the rpm 
package to /applic/cicd/tools directory
-	Check whether Jenkins is already installed using the below command.
	sudo yum list installed | less | grep jenkins
        
-	Go to /applic/cicd/tools directory and check the package details using following command
 
-	This clearly shows that the rpm isn't installed
-	Now, run the below command to install jenkins
sudo yum install jenkins-2.150.2-1.1.noarch.rpm
 
-	Rerun the yum list command to make sure that the jenkins package got installed
sudo yum list installed | grep jenkins
 
-	Go to /etc/sysconfig and update jenkins file
 
 
-	Go to /applic/cicd/jenkins directory and create a new folder tmp
	 
-	Add jenkins to wmadm group
	
 
-	Go to /etc/rc.d/init.d directory and update jenkins file
 
-	Run sudo systemctl daemon-reload
-	Start jenkins and check the status
 
	
-	Get Admin password
        
-	Access Jenkins using below url
http://ncdl1wmisa0005:8080/
 
-	Configure proxy server
	
 
 
-	Click "Select plugins to install"
	
 
-	Close the plugins installation window and proceed
	
 
       Below are the steps to configure Jenkins
-	Navigate to "Manage Jenkins"
    
     
    
    Navigate to mange plugins and select git
    
     
    
    
     
    
-	Install the below plugins, dependent plugins will be selected automatically
Manage Jenkins -> Manage plugins -> Available

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-	Configure Global Tool Configuration in Jenkins

 

-	Configure Jobs in Jenkins
o	Repository URL - This is the git repository url which contains both Jenkins scripts and 
source code
o	Credentials - Login credentials to connect to Git repository and pull Jenkins scripts
o	Branch Specifier - Branch that contains Jenkins file
o	Local subdirectory for repo - Local directory where Jenkins file will get downloaded
o	Script Path - Name of the Jenkins which contains pipeline as code 

 
 
















16	FUTURE ROADMAP
Here is the future roadmap for the CICD process:
-	Implement Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery to have an end to end automated 
process

 

-	In CICD process it is recommended to perform static code analysis for:
o	Maintaining consistency
o	Identifying issues early and
o	Providing feedback to the developers
 

-	Currently, the configurations are manually, which is time consuming and prone to human 
errors. It is recommended to use configuration management tool to automate the 
configurations across environments.

17	APPENDIX
17.1	Infrastructure Setup Approaches
Here are the other approaches:

17.1.1	Option 1: Contingency Approach
In this approach, three Linux VMs will fulfil all requests. Along with these three there will be one more 
Linux VM, which will act as a contingency VM. In case of any outage, requests will be fulfilled by 
contingency VM. For e.g. Linux VM1, Linux VM 2 and Linux VM 3 are fulfilling all requests. In case, 
there is some outage in Linux VM 2, the request will be fulfilled by "Linux VM 4" with some manual 
intervention.

 

17.1.2	Option 2: No Standby No Contingency Approach 
In this approach all VMs run in its full capacity and in case of any outage, the issue needs to be solved 
within the stipulated time as mentioned in SLA (which is between 8 to 24 hours).
There will not be any standby VM which will fulfil the request during the outage.
 

Integration DevOps Guidelines And User Manual
